Switch to extended CONNECT (#54)
ietf-wg-masque/draft-ietf-masque-connect-udp: draft-ietf-masque-connect-udp.md

when, and only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

In this document, we use the term "proxy" to refer to the HTTP server that
opens the UDP socket and responds to the UDP proxying request. If there are

> HTTP intermediaries (as defined in {{Section 3.7 of SEMANTICS}}) between the

Reviewer: As a note, I was finding that annotating sections this way was causing errors in the xml submission when trying to submit DATAGRAM.

Author: Apparently it's supposed to work if it's listed in the normative section at the top. I'll double check though

client and the proxy, those are referred to as "intermediaries" in this
document.

Note that, when the HTTP version in use does not support multiplexing streams

> (such as HTTP/1.1), then any reference to "stream" in this document is meant to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(such as HTTP/1.1), so any reference to "stream" in this document
```

> represent the entire connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
represents the entire connection.
```

# Configuration of Clients {#client-config}

Clients are configured to use UDP Proxying over HTTP via an URI Template
{{!TEMPLATE=RFC6570}}. The URI template MUST contain exactly two variables:
"target_host" and "target_port". Examples are shown below:

~~~
https://masque.example.org/{target_host}/{target_port}/

> https://proxy.example.org:4443/masque?h={target_host}&p={target_port}

Reviewer: Hm, I think if we're defining variables in the template, it should look more like what DoH uses, and what the URI template RFC lays out. 

```suggestion
https://proxy.example.org:4443/masque{?target_host,target_port}
```

Author: Not necessarily, that would also be valid but so is this example. The example you describe would force the query parameter to be equal to the variable name, whereas the current example shows that you can pick custom query parameters

Reviewer: Okay. I have a preference for the form I suggested, so there would be a consistent variable name in the URI.

Author: Fair enough, I've added that as another example line so people see it as an option

tunnel is closed. Tunnels are commonly used to create an end-to-end virtual
connection, which can then be secured using QUIC {{!QUIC=RFC9000}} or another
protocol running over UDP.

When sending its UDP proxying request, the client SHALL perform URI template
expansion to determine the path and query of its request. target_host supports
using DNS names, IPv6 literals and IPv4 literals. Note that this URI template
expansion requires using pct-encoding, so for example if the target_host is
"2001:db8::42", it will be encoded in the URI as "2001%3Adb8%3A%3A42".

A payload within a UDP proxying request message has no defined semantics; a UDP
proxying request with a non-empty payload is malformed.

Responses to UDP proxying requests are not cacheable.

## Proxy Handling

Upon receiving a UDP proxying request, the recipient proxy extracts the
"target_host" and "target_port" variables from the URI it has reconstructed
from the request headers, and establishes a tunnel by directly opening a UDP
socket to the requested target.

Unlike TCP, UDP is connection-less. The proxy that opens the UDP socket has no
way of knowing whether the destination is reachable. Therefore it needs to

> respond to the request without waiting for a TCP SYN-ACK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
respond to the request without waiting for a packet from the target.
```

Proxies can use connected UDP sockets if their operating system supports them,
as that allows the proxy to rely on the kernel to only send it UDP packets that
match the correct 5-tuple. If the proxy uses a non-connected socket, it MUST
validate the IP source address and UDP source port on received packets to
ensure they match the client's request. Packets that do not match MUST be
discarded by the proxy.

The lifetime of the socket is tied to the request stream. The proxy MUST keep
the socket open while the request stream is open. Proxies MAY choose to close
sockets due to a period of inactivity, but they MUST close the request stream
before closing the socket. If a proxy is notified by its operating system that
its socket is no longer usable, it MUST close the request stream.

> A successfull response (as defined in {{resp1}} and {{resp23}}) indicates that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A successful response (as defined in {{resp1}} and {{resp23}}) indicates that
```

> the proxy has opened a socket to the requested target and is willing to proxy

Reviewer: I think we also need to mention that if hostname resolution is required, the proxy MUST do that before responding, and if there is an error SHOULD send it back via a proxy-status header.

Author: Good point, done.

UDP payloads. Any response other than a successful response indicates that the
request has failed, and the client MUST therefore abort the request.

## HTTP Request over HTTP/1.1 {#req1}

When using HTTP/1.1, a UDP proxying request will meet the following requirements:

* the method SHALL be "CONNECT".

* the request-target SHALL use absolute-form (see {{Section 3.2.2 of
  MESSAGING}}).

* the request SHALL include a single Host header containing the origin of the
  proxy.

* the request SHALL include a single "Connection" header with value "Upgrade".

> * the request SHALL include a single "Upgrade" header with value "masque-udp".

Reviewer: As a nit, I think that connect-udp would be a better token. I don't think masque will make it clearer long term.

Author: Let's save that bikeshed for the bikeshed party with everyone around :P

Reviewer: Okay, I will raise an issue then for that bike shed :)

Reviewer 2: Opened #56

client and the proxy, those are referred to as "intermediaries" in this
document.

Note that, when the HTTP version in use does not support multiplexing streams
(such as HTTP/1.1), any reference to "stream" in this document represents the
entire connection.

# Configuration of Clients {#client-config}

Clients are configured to use UDP Proxying over HTTP via an URI Template
{{!TEMPLATE=RFC6570}}. The URI template MUST contain exactly two variables:
"target_host" and "target_port". Examples are shown below:

~~~
https://masque.example.org/{target_host}/{target_port}/
https://proxy.example.org:4443/masque?h={target_host}&p={target_port}
https://proxy.example.org:4443/masque{?target_host,target_port}
~~~
{: #fig-template-examples title="URI Template Examples"}

Since the original HTTP CONNECT method allowed conveying the target host and
port but not the scheme, proxy authority, path, nor query, there exist proxy
configuration interfaces that only allow the user to configure the proxy host
and the proxy port. Client implementations of this specification that are
constrained by such limitations MUST use the default template which is defined

> as: "https://{proxy_host}:{proxy_port}/{target_host}/{target_port}/" where

Reviewer 2: A new issue since already merged, but would this be better as a .well-known URI for the default template?

Reviewer 2: Opened #56
